docs/FIPS.md, before:

# Tink - FIPS 140-2

Currently, Tink is not
[FIPS 140-2](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final)
validated itself. However, it supports several FIPS 140-2 approved algorithms and the
underlying implementations *can* utilize validated cryptographic modules like
[BoringSSLs BoringCrypto](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Cryptographic-Module-Validation-Program/Certificate/3678).
Tink includes a
[WORKSPACE](https://github.com/google/tink/blob/master/cc/third_party/boringssl_fips)
for building BoringSSL in FIPS mode.

# Algorithms supported

The following algorithms in Tink are approved according to
[FIPS 140-2](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final)

*   Authenticated Encryption

    *   AES-GCM
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   AES-CTR-HMAC-SHA256
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))

*   MAC

    *   HMAC-SHA256
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   AES-CMAC
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))

*   Digital Signatures

    *   ECDSA
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   RSA-SSA-PKCS1
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   RSA-SSA-PSS
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))

# FIPS-only mode

If you are required to use FIPS 140-2 approved algorithms and validated
implementations, then you can build Tink in FIPS only mode. This will restrict
usage to approved algorithms *and* check if Tink is utilizing a validated
cryptographic module.

Specifically this will change the behavior of Tink in the following way:

*   `Register()` functions will only register algorithms which have a FIPS
    validated implementation. This means that you will *only* be able to use
    Keysets for algorithms which use a validated cryptographic module.
*   Tink will check if BoringSSL has been build with the BoringCrypto module.
    Calls to primitives will return an `INTERNAL` error when the module is not
    available.
*   Using primitives in `subtle/` will be restricted to algorithms which utilize
    a validated cryptographic module.

Currently this is only supported in the C++ version of Tink.

If you are *not* building Tink in FIPS only mode, it will still utilize
validated implementations for *some* algorithms but not restrict the usage of
other algorithms.

## FIPS only mode in C++

Tink uses
[BoringCrypto](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Cryptographic-Module-Validation-Program/Certificate/3678)
in C++ to provide access to a validated cryptographic module. Note that this
means that the following algorithms are not available, as they have not been
validated:

*   AES-CMAC
*   RSA-SSA-PKCS1 is restricted to 3072-bit modulus
*   RSA-SSA-PSS is restricted to 3072-bit modulus

In order to build Tink in FIPS-only mode, you can simply set a flag at compile
time:

```shell
bazel build ... --//third_party/tink/cc/config:use_only_fips=True
```

If you want to check at runtime whether Tink has been build in FIPS only mode,
you can include the header `config/tink_fips.h` which provides the constant
`kUseOnlyFips`.

Commit message:

Add a function to enable FIPS restrictions at runtime in C++.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 368850964

docs/FIPS.md, after:

# Tink - FIPS 140-2

Currently, Tink is not
[FIPS 140-2](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final)
validated itself. However, it supports several FIPS 140-2 approved algorithms and the
underlying implementations *can* utilize validated cryptographic modules like
[BoringSSLs BoringCrypto](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Cryptographic-Module-Validation-Program/Certificate/3678).
Tink includes a
[WORKSPACE](https://github.com/google/tink/blob/master/cc/third_party/boringssl_fips)
for building BoringSSL in FIPS mode.

# Algorithms supported

The following algorithms in Tink are approved according to
[FIPS 140-2](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final)

*   Authenticated Encryption

    *   AES-GCM
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   AES-CTR-HMAC-SHA256
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))

*   MAC

    *   HMAC-SHA256
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   AES-CMAC
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))

*   Digital Signatures

    *   ECDSA
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   RSA-SSA-PKCS1
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))
    *   RSA-SSA-PSS
        ([FIPS 140-2 Annex A](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/fips/140/2/final/documents/fips1402annexa.pdf))

# FIPS-only mode

If you are required to use FIPS 140-2 approved algorithms and validated
implementations, then you can build Tink in FIPS only mode. This will restrict
usage to approved algorithms *and* check if Tink is utilizing a validated
cryptographic module.

Specifically this will change the behavior of Tink in the following way:

*   `Register()` functions will only register algorithms which have a FIPS
    validated implementation. This means that you will *only* be able to use
    Keysets for algorithms which use a validated cryptographic module.
*   Tink will check if BoringSSL has been build with the BoringCrypto module.
    Calls to primitives will return an `INTERNAL` error when the module is not
    available.
*   Using primitives in `subtle/` will be restricted to algorithms which utilize
    a validated cryptographic module.

Currently this is only supported in the C++ version of Tink.

If you are *not* building Tink in FIPS only mode, it will still utilize
validated implementations for *some* algorithms but not restrict the usage of
other algorithms.

## FIPS only mode in C++

Tink uses
[BoringCrypto](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Cryptographic-Module-Validation-Program/Certificate/3678)
in C++ to provide access to a validated cryptographic module. Note that this
means that the following algorithms are not available, as they have not been
validated:

*   AES-CMAC
*   RSA-SSA-PKCS1 is restricted to 3072-bit modulus
*   RSA-SSA-PSS is restricted to 3072-bit modulus

In order to build Tink in FIPS-only mode, you can simply set a flag at compile
time:

```shell
bazel build ... --//third_party/tink/cc/config:use_only_fips=True
```

If you want to check at runtime whether Tink has been build in FIPS only mode,
you can include the header `internal/fips_utils.h` which provides the constant
`kUseOnlyFips`.

Alternatively to building Tink in FIPS mode, you can call
`crypto::tink::RestrictToFips()` from `config/tink_fips.h` which will set a flag
at runtime to enable the restrictions to FIPS primitives.

WARNING: If you use the runtime option, then `crypto::tink::RestrictToFips()`
must be called before handling any key material, registering key manager or
other Tink functionalities. You further have to ensure that BoringSSL has been
built with the BoringCrypto module, as otherwise Tink will not allow you to
process any data.
